.\" This file is part of the Public Domain C Library (PDCLib).
.\" Permission is granted to use, modify, and / or redistribute at will.
.\"
.Dd
.Dt _CBPRINTF 3
.Os
.\"
.Sh NAME
.Nm _cbprintf ,
.Nm _vcbprintf ,
.Nm _cbwprintf ,
.Nm _vcbwprintf
.Nd formatted output conversion by callback
.\"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdio.h
.Fn "int _cbprintf"   "void *p" "size_t (*cb)(void *p, const char    *buf, size_t size)" "const char *fmt" "..."
.Fn "int _vcbprintf"  "void *p" "size_t (*cb)(void *p, const char    *buf, size_t size)" "const char *fmt" "va_list ap"
.Pp
.In wchar.h
.Fn "int _cbwprintf"  "void *p" "size_t (*cb)(void *p, const wchar_t *buf, size_t size)" "const wchar_t *fmt" "..."
.Fn "int _vcbwprintf" "void *p" "size_t (*cb)(void *p, const wchar_t *buf, size_t size)" "const wchar_t *fmt" "va_list ap"
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions permit the
.Fn printf
string formatting functionality to be reused outside the C standard library,
without the limitation of using the
.Fn sprintf
function for this process, that the whole formatted string must exist in memory
at once.
.Pp
.\"
These functions shall exhibit the same behaviour and conversion specifiers as
the
.Xr printf 3
function, except they shall perform their output by calling the
.Fa cb
callback, passing the characters to be output as the
.Fa buf
parameter, and the count of such characters as
.Fa size .
.Pp
.\"
The implementation is permitted to invoke
.Fa cb
with a non-zero number of characters as many times as it deems necessary
necessary. That is, the implementation may decide to call it only once it has
finished conversion of the entire string, or it may call it multiple times as it
incrementally performs a conversion (it would be legal for an implementation to
invoke the callback for every character produced).
.Pp
.\"
During all invocations, the callback will be passed as
.Fa p
the same value as was passed to the function.
.Pp
.\"
The callback shall return
.Fa size
on success, or any other value on failure
.\"
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The functions shall return the number of characters produced by the conversion
on success, or a negative number on failure. If the number of characters
converted exceeds
.Dv INT_MAX ,
then
.Dv INT_MAX
shall be returned.
.\"
.Sh EXAMPLES
Using
.Fn _vcbprintf
to reimplement printf
.Bd -literal -offset indent
static size_t do_output(void *p, const char *buf, size_t size)
{
    return fwrite(buf, 1, size, (FILE *) p);
}

int myprintf(const char *fmt, ...)
{
    va_list ap;
    va_start(ap, fmt);
    return _vcbprintf(stdout, do_output, ap);
    va_end(ap);
}
.Ed
.\"
.Sh ERRORS
This function shall not affect errno, however the callbacks it invokes may
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr printf 3
.\"
.Sh RATIONALE
Sensible implementations of the ISO C standard library implement an analogous
system internally, permitting them to share their implementation of formatting
between
.Xr printf 3
and
.Xr sprintf 3 .
Therefore, implementing a callback based variant is not of substantial
complexity.
.Pp
These functions permit the reuse of this functionality by applications and
libraries (for example, a logging library) without the need to reimplement it,
and without the aforementioned memory limitation imposed by
.Xr sprintf 3 .
.\"
.Sh HISTORY
This nonstandard extension was first defined by PDCLib.
