.\" This file is part of the Public Domain C Library (PDCLib).
.\" Permission is granted to use, modify, and / or redistribute at will.
.\"
.Dd
.Dt PDCLIB 3
.Os
.\"
.Sh NAME
.Nm PDCLib
.Nd Public domain, portable C library
.\"
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb pdclib
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In assert.h
.In ctype.h
.In errno.h
.In inttypes.h
.In iso646.h
.In limits.h
.In locale.h
.In signal.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdbool.h
.In stddef.h
.In stdint.h
.In stdio.h
.In stdlib.h
.In stdnoreturn.h
.In string.h
.In threads.h
.In time.h
.In wchar.h
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
library is a portable, public domain C library. It aims at full conformance with
ISO C89, C95, C99 and C11 when used in combination with a conformant compiler. 
In addition, it aims at conformance with the portion of ISO C++97 and C++2011 
which is derived from said standards.
.Pp
.Nm
aims for strict conformance with the selected C/C++ standard. Therefore, unlike
most C libraries, it does not by default expose any extensions. Some extensions
(from POSIX or the Single Unix Specification) can be selected by defining the 
appropriate feature selection macro, such as 
.Dv _POSIX_C_SOURCE
or
.Dv _XOPEN_SOURCE
to the appropriate value. For example, in the following definition:
.Bd -offset indent
.Sy #define _XOPEN_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200809L
.br
.Sy #include
.In string.h
.br
.Fn "char * strdup" "const char *"
.Ed
.\"
it is documented that defining either 
.Dv _XOPEN_SOURCE
or
.Dv _POSIX_C_SOURCE
to have a value greater than
.Li 200809L
before the first inclusion of
.In string.h
will expose a definition of the function
.Fn strdup
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cc 1 ,
.Xr c++ 7
.Sh STANDARDS
When compiled with a C compiler, conformant with 
.St -isoC-90 ,
.St -isoC-amd1 ,
.St -isoC-tcor1 ,
.St -isoC-tcor2 ,
.St -isoC-99 or
.St -isoC-2011
as dependent upon the version of C the compiler declares conformance with.
.Pp
When compiled with a C++ compiler, conformant with ISO/IEC 14882:1997 or ISO/IEC
14882:2011 "The C++ Programming Language" as dependent upon the version of C++
the compiler declares conformance with.
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
library is maintained by by
.An Erin Shepherd ,
.Mt erin.shepherd@e43.eu .
Based upon work by
.An Martin "Solar" Baute ,
.Mt solar@rootdirectory.de .
