.\" This file is part of the Public Domain C Library (PDCLib).
.\" Permission is granted to use, modify, and / or redistribute at will.
.\"
.Dd
.Dt posix_locale 3
.Os
.\"
.Sh NAME
.Nm posix_locale
.Nd POSIX extended locale functions
.\"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy #define _POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200112L
.In locale.h
.Vt typedef <anonymous> locale_t;
.br
#define 
.Va LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE
<constant of type locale_t>;
.Fn "locale_t uselocale" "locale_t newlocale"
.Fn "locale_t duplocale" "locale_t loc"
.Fn "locale_t newlocale" "int category_mask" "const char *locale" "locale_t base"
.Fn "void freelocale" "locale_t loc"
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The ISO C standard defines the
.Xr setlocale 3
function, which can be used for modifying the application global locale. In 
multithreaded programs, it can sometimes be useful to allow a thread to, either
temporarily or permanently, assume a different locale from the rest of the 
application. POSIX defines extended locale functions which permit this.
.\"
.Pp
The function
.Fn uselocale
is used to change the locale of the current thread. If 
.Fa newlocale
is the symbolic constant
.Dv LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE ,
then the thread locale will be set to the application global locale. If
.Fa newlocale
is
.Dv NULL ,
then the locale will not be changed. Otherwise, 
.Fa newlocale
should be a value returned from either of the
.Fn newlocale
or
.Fn duplocale
functions. The return value will be the previous thread locale; or 
.Dv LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE
if the thread has no current locale.
.Pp
.\"
The function
.Fn duplocale
is used to make an exact copy of an existing locale. The passed locale object 
must have been returned from a call to either
.Fn duplocale
or
.Fn newlocale .
.Pp
.\"
The function
.Fn newlocale
is used to modify an existing locale or create a new locale. The returned locale
will have the properties defined by
.Fa category_mask
set to the values from
.Fa locale
as per 
.Xr setlocale 3 ,
with the remainder being taken from either
.Fa base
(which must be a locale object previously returned by
.Fn duplocale
or
.Fn newlocale )
if it is specified, or otherwise from the "C" locale.
.Pp
It is undefined if 
.Fn newlocale
modifies
.Fa base
or frees it and creates a new locale.
.Pp
.\"
The 
.Fn freelocale
function is used to free a locale previously created via
.Fn duplocale
or
.Fn newlocale .
.\"
.\"
.Sh ERRORS
For uselocale,
.Er EINVAL
may be returned if
.Fa locale
is not a valid locale.
.Pp
.\"
For 
.Fn duplocale ,
.Bl -tag -width 8
.It Er EINVAL
may be returned if
.Fa locale
is not a valid locale
.It Er ENOMEM
shall be returned if the system had insufficient memory to satisfy the request.
.El
.Pp
.\"
For 
.Fn newlocale ,
.Bl -tag -width 8
.It Er EINVAL
shall be returned if 
.Fa category_mask
contains a bit which does not correspond to a valid category, and may be 
returned if
.Fa locale
is not a valid locale object.
.It Er ENOMEM
shall be returned if the system did not have enough memory to allocate a new 
locale object or read the locale data
.It Er ENOENT
shall be returned if the locale specified does not contain data for all the 
specified categories
.El
.Pp
.\"
.Fn freelocale
has no errors
.\"
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
None
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lconv 3
.Xr setlocale 3
.\"
.Sh STANDARDS
Conforming to
.St -p1003.1-2008 .